.\"t
.TH Descriptive "" "2011-04-26 20:25 CET" "statistics"
.SS Description
.PP
This template will return descriptive statistics of a numerical, or a
frequency table of a categorical variable.
.SS \f[I]gender\f[] ("Gender")
.PP
The dataset has \f[I]709\f[] observations with \f[I]673\f[] valid values
(missing: \f[I]36\f[]) in \f[I]gender\f[] ("Gender"), which seems to be
a qualitative variable.
.SS Base statistics
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
l l l l l.
T{
\f[B]gender\f[]
T}@T{
\f[B]N\f[]
T}@T{
\f[B]%\f[]
T}@T{
\f[B]Cumul. N\f[]
T}@T{
\f[B]Cumul. %\f[]
T}
_
T{
male
T}@T{
410
T}@T{
60.9212
T}@T{
410
T}@T{
60.9212
T}
T{
female
T}@T{
263
T}@T{
39.0788
T}@T{
673
T}@T{
100
T}
T{
Total
T}@T{
673
T}@T{
100
T}@T{
673
T}@T{
100
T}
.TE
.SS Barplot
.PP
[IMAGE: image (3a46554ee29cd4dfe45dda5016464658.png)] (/tmp/RtmpeIwHkw/file75e80a33-hires.png)
.PP
It seems that the highest value is \f[I]2\f[] which is exactly 2 times
higher than the smallest value (\f[I]1\f[]).
.PP
The most frequent value is \f[I]male\f[].
.SS Description
.PP
This template will return descriptive statistics of a numerical, or a
frequency table of a categorical variable.
.SS \f[I]age\f[] ("Age")
.PP
The dataset has \f[I]709\f[] observations with \f[I]677\f[] valid values
(missing: \f[I]32\f[]) in \f[I]age\f[] ("Age"), which seems to be a
quantitative variable.
.SS Base statistics
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
l l l l.
T{
\f[B]Variable\f[]
T}@T{
\f[B]mean\f[]
T}@T{
\f[B]sd\f[]
T}@T{
\f[B]var\f[]
T}
_
T{
Age
T}@T{
24.5731
T}@T{
6.8491
T}@T{
46.9107
T}
.TE
.SS Histogram
.PP
[IMAGE: image (4f025d440bf35d40e21208e8b0c58b77.png)] (/tmp/RtmpeIwHkw/file5d4e0c0d-hires.png)
.PP
It seems that the highest value is \f[I]58\f[] which is exactly 3.625
times higher than the smallest value (\f[I]16\f[]).
.PP
The standard deviation is \f[I]6.8491\f[] (variance: \f[I]46.9107\f[]).
The expected value is around \f[I]24.5731\f[], somewhere between
\f[I]24.0572\f[] and \f[I]25.0891\f[] with the standard error of
\f[I]0.2632\f[].
.PP
If we suppose that \f[I]Age\f[] is not near to a normal distribution
(test: see below, skewness: \f[I]1.9296\f[], kurtosis: \f[I]7.4851\f[]),
checking the median (\f[I]23\f[]) might be a better option instead of
the mean.
The interquartile range (\f[I]6\f[]) measures the statistics dispersion
of the variable (similar to standard deviation) based on median.
.SS Normality tests
.SS Introduction
.PP
In statistics, \f[I]normality\f[] refers to an assumption that the
distribution of a random variable follows \f[I]normal\f[]
(\f[I]Gaussian\f[]) distribution.
Because of its bell-like shape, it\[aq]s also known as the \f[I]"bell
curve"\f[].
The formula for \f[I]normal distribution\f[] is:
.PP
.RS
$f(x) = \\frac{1}{\\sqrt{2\\pi{}\\sigma{}^2}} e^{-\\frac{(x-\\mu{})^2}{2\\sigma{}^2}}$
.RE
.PP
\f[I]Normal distribution\f[] belongs to a \f[I]location-scale family\f[]
of distributions, as it\[aq]s defined two parameters:
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]μ\f[] - \f[I]mean\f[] or \f[I]expectation\f[] (location parameter)
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]σ^2^\f[] - \f[I]variance\f[] (scale parameter)
.PP
[IMAGE: image (806ea97c59e1a12d4acae4968957aaa9.png)] (/tmp/RtmpeIwHkw/file4dd701cc-hires.png)
.SS Normality Tests
.SS Overview
.PP
Various hypothesis tests can be applied in order to test if the
distribution of given random variable violates normality assumption.
These procedures test the H~0~ that provided variable\[aq]s distribution
is \f[I]normal\f[].
At this point only few such tests will be covered: the ones that are
available in \f[C]stats\f[] package (which comes bundled with default R
installation) and \f[C]nortest\f[] package that is
available (http://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/nortest/index.html) on
CRAN.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]Shapiro-Wilk test\f[] is a powerful normality test appropriate for
small samples.
In R, it\[aq]s implemented in \f[C]shapiro.test\f[] function available
in \f[C]stats\f[] package.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]Lilliefors test\f[] is a modification of \f[I]Kolmogorov-Smirnov
test\f[] appropriate for testing normality when parameters or normal
distribution (\f[I]μ\f[], \f[I]σ^2^\f[]) are not known.
\f[C]lillie.test\f[] function is located in \f[C]nortest\f[] package.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]Anderson-Darling test\f[] is one of the most powerful normality
tests as it will detect the most of departures from normality.
You can find \f[C]ad.test\f[] function in \f[C]nortest\f[] package.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]Pearson Χ^2^ test\f[] is another normality test which takes more
"traditional" approach in normality testing.
\f[C]pearson.test\f[] is located in \f[C]nortest\f[] package.
.SS Results
.PP
Here you can see the results of applied normality tests
(\f[I]p-values\f[] less than 0.05 indicate significant discrepancies):
.PP
\f[I]0.05\f[]
.PP
So, let\[aq]s draw some conclusions based on applied normality test:
.IP \[bu] 2
according to \f[I]Shapiro-Wilk test\f[], the distribution of
\f[I]Age\f[] is not normal.
.IP \[bu] 2
based on \f[I]Lilliefors test\f[], distribution of \f[I]Age\f[] is not
normal
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Anderson-Darling test\f[] confirms violation of normality
assumption
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]Pearson\[aq]s Χ^2^ test\f[] classifies the underlying distribution
as non-normal
.SS Diagnostic Plots
.PP
There are various plots that can help you decide about the normality of
the distribution.
Only a few most commonly used plots will be shown: \f[I]histogram\f[],
\f[I]Q-Q plot\f[] and \f[I]kernel density plot\f[].
.SS Histogram
.PP
\f[I]Histogram\f[] was first introduced by \f[I]Karl Pearson\f[] and
it\[aq]s probably the most popular plot for depicting the probability
distribution of a random variable.
However, the decision depends on number of bins, so it can sometimes be
misleading.
If the variable distribution is normal, bins should resemble the
"bell-like" shape.
.PP
[IMAGE: image (4f025d440bf35d40e21208e8b0c58b77.png)] (/tmp/RtmpeIwHkw/file6fb71f43-hires.png)
.SS Q-Q Plot
.PP
"Q" in \f[I]Q-Q plot\f[] stands for \f[I]quantile\f[], as this plot
compares empirical and theoretical distribution (in this case,
\f[I]normal\f[] distribution) by plotting their quantiles against each
other.
For normal distribution, plotted dots should approximate a "straight",
\f[C]x\ =\ y\f[] line.
.PP
[IMAGE: image (131f20f388f78bd4863828d9fed8c35c.png)] (/tmp/RtmpeIwHkw/file35f509a2-hires.png)
.SS Kernel Density Plot
.PP
\f[I]Kernel density plot\f[] is a plot of smoothed \f[I]empirical
distribution function\f[].
As such, it provides good insight about the shape of the distribution.
For normal distributions, it should resemble the well known "bell
shape".
.PP
[IMAGE: image (6b02f49521f9cdd18ef0206b1dac3583.png)] (/tmp/RtmpeIwHkw/file3c06b601-hires.png)
.PP
   *   *   *   *   *
.PP
This report was generated with R (http://www.r-project.org/) (2.14.0)
and rapport (http://al3xa.github.com/rapport/) (0.1) in 1.606 sec on
x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu platform.
.PP
[IMAGE: image (images/logo.png)]
.SH AUTHORS
Rapport package team \@ https://github.com/aL3xa/rapport.
